CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We're so excited you're interested in helping with SuperTokens! We are happy to help you get started, even if you don't have any previous open-source experience :blush:

## New to Open Source?

1. Take a look at [How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)
2. Go through the [SuperTokens Code of Conduct](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Where to ask Questions?

1. Check our [Github Issues](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing/issues) to see if someone has already answered your question.
2. Join our community on [Discord](https://supertokens.com/discord) and feel free to ask us your questions

## Development Setup

You will need to setup the `supertokens-core` in order to to run the `backend-sdk-testing` tests, you can setup `supertokens-core` by following this [guide](https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-core/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-setup)  
**Note: If you are not contributing to the `supertokens-core` you can skip steps 1 & 4 under Project Setup of the `supertokens-core` contributing guide.**

You will need to fork/clone the `supertokens-node` and `supertokens-python`.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node.git
git clone https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-python.git
```

### Prerequisites

-   OS: Linux or macOS
-   Nodejs 16 & npm
-   Python 3 & pip
-   Golang
-   IDE: [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)(recommended) or equivalent IDE

### Project Setup

1. Fork the [backend-sdk-testing](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing) repository
2. Clone the forked repository in the parent directory of the previously setup `supertokens-root`, `supertokens-node` and `supertokens-python`.  
   `backend-sdk-testing`, `supertokens-root`, `supertokens-node` and `supertokens-python` should exist side by side within the same parent directory
3. `cd backend-sdk-testing`

##### Node

4. Install the project dependencies  
   `npm i -d`
5. Install the dependencies inside `test/with-typescript`  
   `cd test/with-typescript && npm i && cd ../..`

##### Python

6. Create a new python virtual environment
   `python3 -m venv pyenv`
7. Activate the new virtual environment
   `source pyenv/bin/activate`
8. Install dependencies
   `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Modifying Code

1. Open the `backend-sdk-testing` project in your IDE and you can start modifying the code
2. After modifying the code, build your project to implement your changes  
   `npm run build-pretty`

## Node Testing

1. Navigate to the `supertokens-root` repository
2. Start the testing environment  
   `./startTestEnv --wait`
3. Navigate to the `backend-sdk-testing` repository  
   `cd ../backend-sdk-testing/`
4. Run all tests against node-sdk
   `INSTALL_PATH=../supertokens-root npm test`

## Python Testing

1. Navigate to the `supertokens-root` repository
2. Start the testing environment  
   `./startTestEnv --wait`
3. Navigate to the `backend-sdk-testing` repository  
   `cd ../backend-sdk-testing/`
4. Run all tests against python-sdk
   `ST_SDK=python INSTALL_PATH=../supertokens-root npm test`

### To be able to run and debug tests from vscode

1. Install the extension - https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=hbenl.vscode-mocha-test-adapter
2. Add the following to your vscode settings:
    ```json
    {
        // ...,
        "mochaExplorer.env": {
            "TEST_MODE": "testing",
            "INSTALL_PATH": "../supertokens-root",
            "ST_SDK": "node" // or python
        }
    }
    ```
3. In `lib/tsconfig.json`, change `"sourceMap"` to `true`
4. Run `npm run build`

You should now be able to see tests on the VSCode's testing panel and run/debug from there.

## Pull Request

1. Before submitting a pull request make sure all tests have passed
2. Reference the relevant issue or pull request and give a clear description of changes/features added when submitting a pull request
3. Make sure the PR title follows [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification

## SuperTokens Community

SuperTokens is made possible by a passionate team and a strong community of developers. If you have any questions or would like to get more involved in the SuperTokens community you can check out:

-   [Github Issues](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing/issues)
-   [Discord](https://supertokens.com/discord)
-   [Twitter](https://twitter.com/supertokensio)
-   or [email us](mailto:team@supertokens.com)

Additional resources you might find useful:

-   [SuperTokens Docs](https://supertokens.com/docs/community/getting-started/installation)
-   [Blog Posts](https://supertokens.com/blog/)

Commit message:

start the api mock server manually

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We're so excited you're interested in helping with SuperTokens! We are happy to help you get started, even if you don't have any previous open-source experience :blush:

## New to Open Source?

1. Take a look at [How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)
2. Go through the [SuperTokens Code of Conduct](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## Where to ask Questions?

1. Check our [Github Issues](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing/issues) to see if someone has already answered your question.
2. Join our community on [Discord](https://supertokens.com/discord) and feel free to ask us your questions

## Development Setup

You will need to setup the `supertokens-core` in order to to run the `backend-sdk-testing` tests, you can setup `supertokens-core` by following this [guide](https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-core/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#development-setup)  
**Note: If you are not contributing to the `supertokens-core` you can skip steps 1 & 4 under Project Setup of the `supertokens-core` contributing guide.**

You will need to fork/clone the `supertokens-node` and `supertokens-python`.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-node.git
git clone https://github.com/supertokens/supertokens-python.git
```

### Prerequisites

-   OS: Linux or macOS
-   Nodejs 16 & npm
-   Python 3 & pip
-   Golang
-   IDE: [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)(recommended) or equivalent IDE

### Project Setup

1. Fork the [backend-sdk-testing](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing) repository
2. Clone the forked repository in the parent directory of the previously setup `supertokens-root`, `supertokens-node` and `supertokens-python`.  
   `backend-sdk-testing`, `supertokens-root`, `supertokens-node` and `supertokens-python` should exist side by side within the same parent directory
3. `cd backend-sdk-testing`

##### Node

4. Install the project dependencies  
   `npm i -d`
5. Install the dependencies inside `test/with-typescript`  
   `cd test/with-typescript && npm i && cd ../..`

##### Python

6. Create a new python virtual environment
   `python3 -m venv pyenv`
7. Activate the new virtual environment
   `source pyenv/bin/activate`
8. Install dependencies
   `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Modifying Code

1. Open the `backend-sdk-testing` project in your IDE and you can start modifying the code
2. After modifying the code, build your project to implement your changes  
   `npm run build-pretty`

## Node Testing

1. Navigate to the `supertokens-root` repository
2. Start the testing environment  
   `./startTestEnv --wait`
3. Navigate to the `backend-sdk-testing` repository
4. Start the API mock server, and keep it running
   `npm run start:node`
5. In another terminal run all tests against node-sdk
   `INSTALL_PATH=../supertokens-root npm test`

## Python Testing

1. Navigate to the `supertokens-root` repository
2. Start the testing environment  
   `./startTestEnv --wait`
3. Navigate to the `backend-sdk-testing` repository
4. Start the API mock server, and keep it running
   `npm run start:python`
5. In another terminal run all tests against node-sdk
   `ST_SDK=python INSTALL_PATH=../supertokens-root npm test`

## Pull Request

1. Before submitting a pull request make sure all tests have passed
2. Reference the relevant issue or pull request and give a clear description of changes/features added when submitting a pull request
3. Make sure the PR title follows [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification

## SuperTokens Community

SuperTokens is made possible by a passionate team and a strong community of developers. If you have any questions or would like to get more involved in the SuperTokens community you can check out:

-   [Github Issues](https://github.com/supertokens/backend-sdk-testing/issues)
-   [Discord](https://supertokens.com/discord)
-   [Twitter](https://twitter.com/supertokensio)
-   or [email us](mailto:team@supertokens.com)

Additional resources you might find useful:

-   [SuperTokens Docs](https://supertokens.com/docs/community/getting-started/installation)
-   [Blog Posts](https://supertokens.com/blog/)
